The **Diamond Discovery Hub** will be one of the main expected results of the CRAFT-OA project, comprising a service to boost the visibility, discoverability and recognition of the European network of Diamond Open Access publishers and technology providers. 

It appears to build on the existing discovery services provided by OpenAIRE, particularly the [OpenAIRE Graph](https://graph.openaire.eu).

> Providers will be able to validate if their services meet the minimal technical requirements for metadata dissemination (as they will be defined by the CRAFT-OA project based on the outputs of the DIAMAS project, standards such as the EQSIP mentioned in Section 2 and best practices from the IPSP community). Upon successful validation, OpenAIRE will aggregate the metadata records they expose, which contain descriptions of the research publications, possibly with links to research data, protocols, software or other types of research products. OpenAIRE will include the records in its research graph and in the EOSC Research Product Catalogue. Records will also feed to the DDH Indexing Layer, which serves the DDH Search & Browse UI, and the DDH Export Layer, which is in charge of exporting the metadata records according to the protocols, formats, and level of quality as requested by the other large aggregators like DOAJ an WoS.

Source: Bardi, Alessia, Margo Bargheer, and Paolo Manghi. 2023. ‘A Discovery Hub for Diamond Open Access Publishing’. In Proceedings of the 19th The Conference on Information and Research Science Connecting to Digital and Library Science, IRCDL 2023, Bari, Italy, February 23-24, 2023, edited by Alex Falcon, Stefano Ferilli, Alessia Bardi, Stefano Marchesin, and Domenico Redavid, 3365:162–66. CEUR Workshop Proceedings. CEUR-WS.org. https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3365/short12.pdf.
